feat: rewriting (experimental) (#10867)
withastro/astro: .changeset/pink-ligers-share.md

---
"astro": minor
---

> Adds experimental rewriting in Astro, via `rewrite()` function and `next()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds experimental rewriting in Astro with a new `rewrite()` function and the middleware `next()` function.
```
Realized "via" is twice in a row. So, might also be nice to highlight that the function is new!

---
"astro": minor
---

> Add experimental rewriting in Astro, via `rewrite()` function and `next()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds experimental rewriting in Astro, via `rewrite()` function and `next()` function.
```

The feature is available via experimental flag:

```js
export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
    rewriting: true
  }
})
```

> When enabled, you can use `rewrite()` to **render

Reviewer: Just checking on this formatting here. Did you mean to split up into two lines like this?

** another page without changing the URL of the browser in Astro pages and endpoints.

```astro
---
// src/pages/dashboard.astro
if (!Astro.props.allowed) {
	return Astro.rewrite("/")
}
---
```

```js
// src/pages/api.js
export function GET(ctx) {
  if (!ctx.locals.allowed) {
    return ctx.rewrite("/")
  }
}
```

> The middleware `next()` function now accepts the same payload of the `rewrite()` function. For example, with `next("/")`, you can call the next middleware function with a new `Request`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The middleware `next()` function now accepts a parameter with the same type as the rewrite method. For example, with `next("/")`, you can call the next middleware function with a new `Request`.
```
Is this accurate? I liked the way Erika phrased it in the blog post!
